# Morphology

The morphology of eberban is composed of 5 vowels (**a, e, i, o, u**), 16
consonants (**b, c, d, f, g, j, k, l, m, n, p, r, s, t, v, z**) and finally
the letter **h**, for a total of 22 letters. Among the consonants, **n** and
**r** are designated as **sonorants**, and play an important role in eberban's
morphology. No letter can appear 2 times in a row.

Words are usually written separated by spaces, however this is not mandatory.
While removing spaces it might however be required to add a word boundary
marker symbol in some places. This symbol is usually **'**, but others such as
**.** are also accepted.

Letters are chained one after the other without spaces to form **words** which
are devided in multiple categories based on their structure.

## Word types

### Particles

**Particles** are words exerting grammatical functions. They starts with a
single *non-sonorant consonant*, followed only by *vowels* and *h*. Particles
are themselves categorized into **families** having identical grammar but
different meanings.

All other words are **predicate words** and express intrisic meanings such as
"cat", "language" or "teach". They are made of the following categories :

### Roots

**Roots** are the building blocks of the language and express meanings that
would be hard or too long to convey otherwise. They can start with a
single *non-sonorant consonant* followed by a mix of *vowels* and at least one
*sonorant*. They can also start with a valid *initial consonant pair* followed
by a mix of *vowels* and 0 to any *sonorants*. A *sonorant* can appear between
2 *vowels* or at the end of a word. The valid *initial consonant pairs* are the
following :

|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |        |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------ |
| cp  | ct  | ck  | cf  | cm  | cn  | cl  | cr     |
| sp  | st  | sk  | sf  | sm  | sn  | sl  | sr     |
| jb  | jd  | jg  | jv  | jm  | jn  | jl  | jr     |
| zb  | zd  | zg  | zv  | zm  | zn  | zl  | zr     |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     | &nbsp; |
| pl  | pr  | tl  | tr  | kl  | kr  | fl  | fr     |
| bl  | br  | dl  | dr  | gl  | gr  | vl  | vr     |
| ml  | mr  |     |     |     |     |     |        |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     | &nbsp; |
| tc  | ts  | dj  | dz  | kc  | ks  | gj  | gz     |
| pc  | ps  | bj  | bz  |

### Borrowings

**Borrowings** allows to import foreign words or names. They are prefixed by
the vowel **u**, and they may contain multiple *non-sonorant consonants*. A
maximum of 3 consonants in a row are allowed, and they can't all be sonorants.
Consonnants are split into 2 categories called **voiced** (b, d, g, j, v, z) and
**unvoiced** (c, f, k, p, s, t). A **voiced** consonnant cannot be followed by
an **unvoiced** one, and vice-versa. Additionally, **sibilants** (j, z, s, c)
cannot follow each other.

Borrowings must end with a *vowel* which can be followed by a single *sonorant*.
In written media borrowings must be followed by either spaces or a word boundary
marker, while in oral speech the penultimate vowel must be stressed.
Similarly, the initial **u** must be either preceded by spaces or a word
boundary marker, and realized oraly as either a pause or a glotal stop.

### Compounds

**Compounds** allows to make new words from multiple other kind of words.
They start by either **a**, **e**, **i** or **o** and follow the same rule as
the **u** of borrowings. Their structure will be detailed later in this book.

### Example

With spaces : *pa za umia tsen eberban*  
Without spaces : *paza'umia'tsen'eberban*

Particles : *pa*, *za*
Borrowing : *umia*
Root : *tsen*
Compound : *eberban*

### Reasoning

Outside of borrowings, encountering a *non-sonorant consonant* or a word
boundary marker means it is the start of a new word. Word boundary markers or
spaces before vowel-initial words allow to prevent them from "merging" into
the previous word, while the final space or marker, or stress in speech; allow
to recognized the end of borrowings. This prevent any ambiguity of words
boundary, which is called a **Self-Segregating Morphology**, and does so
with very easy rules.