# Proposition and predicates

eberban grammar is based around __Second-Order Logic (SOL)__ and tries to stay
pretty close to it while still being easy to use by humans.

Let's first start with some english sentences such as :

- "A cat sleeps."
- "You eat an apple."

These are statement about something being true (or false), and are called
__propositions__, which are made of a __subject__ ("A cat"/"You") and a __verbal
clause__ ("sleeps"/"eat an apple"), itself being composed of a __verb__
("sleeps"/"eat") and optionally one or more __objects__ (none/"an apple"). The
__verb__ is describing something about the __subject__ and __objects__.

In eberban the equivalent of a __verb__ is called a __predicate__, which can be
seen as a __proposition template__ with open blanks for the things it describes.
The verb "eat" could thus be expressed as a predicate as `_ is eating _`,
the first blank `_` representing _what/who is eating_, while the second blank
represents _what is being eaten_. The second verb can be expressed similarly
as `_ is sleeping`. These blanks are called __argument places__.

To get closer to eberban sentences, we need to do a small trick with the subject
and objects. Indeed, "a cat" is pretty much equivalent to "something which is a
cat", "you" to "something which is you", etc. With that form we can see that
those can also by expressed using predicates such as `_ is a cat`,
and say that :

- \[__something-1__ is a cat\] AND \[__something-1__ sleeps\]
- \[__something-2__ is me\] AND \[__something-2__ eats __something-3__\] AND
  \[__something-3__ is an apple\]

These "somethings" are called __individual variables__ and are managed by
the eberban grammar, and we'll write them in glosses as letters such as __X__
or __Y__ to keep things short.

> To be more precise, eberban __individual variables__ are __plural__. It
> means that they represent "one or more things", and a more precise amount
> (such as singular) can be expressed using other predicates. Also keep in mind
> that by default no tense is implied, meaning the sentence can either be true
> in the past, the present or the future. Again, predicates allow to narrow
> down the meaning.
>
> To keep glosses simple, singular and present will be used for the general case
> unless stated otherwise.

Definitions of eberban __predicate words__ are like this :

- mian: `(Ed) is a cat.`
- minu : `(Ed) sleeps.`

`(Ed)` represents an __argument place__. The uppercase vowel in parenthesis can
be either __E, A, O__ or __U__, designating respectively a 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th
place. These vowels are used in multiple particle patterns to refer to these
places. While the exact meaning of the lowercase **d** (or **c**) will be
explained in a future chapter, for now the most important is that it
is an __individual place__.

When multiple predicate words are chained one after the other, their **E**
_individual places_ __are the same thing(s)__, while any other place will have
__its own variable__.

``gloss
mian minu

mian minu

{\[__X__ is a cat\]} {\[__X__ sleeps\]} 

A cat sleeps.
``

Here are the definitions to translate the other sentence :

- mo : `(Ed) is you, a listener.`
- buri : `(Ed) eats [Ad].`
- menoe : `(Ed) is an apple.`

Here __buri__ has an __A__ place in brackets. Predicates having this
are called __switch predicates__ or __sea predicates__ as they switch which
__individual variable__ is carried on to the next predicate.

``gloss
mo buri menoe

mo buri menoe

{\[__X__ is you\]} {\[__X__ eats __Y__\]} {\[__Y__ is an apple\]}

You eat an apple.
``

> Note : some predicates have an __A__ places that are not in brackets and thus
> are not __switch predicates__. This is often used when places besides __E__
> are not very important, and carrying the __E__ place __individual variable__
> is more relevant.

Multiple switch predicates can be used in the same sentence :

- mi : `(Ed) is I/me/a speaker/author.`
- viru : `(Ed) sees [Ad].`
- bri : `(Ed) (default: speaker) is above/upward/up from [Ad] (default: speaker).`
- kcaro : `(Ed) is a table.`

``gloss
mi viru menoe bri kcaro

mi viru menoe bri kcaro

{\[__X__ is me\]} {\[__X__ sees __Y__\]} {\[__Y__ is an apple\]}
{\[__Y__ is above __Z__\]} {\[__Z__ is a table\]}

I see an apple above/on a table.
``

> Note : Some predicates like _bri_ specifies a __default value__. This value is
> used when its individual variable is __not shared with another predicate in the
> sentence__. If __kcaro__ was absent from the previous sentence, __Z__ would
> not be shared and the sentence would mean "I see an apple above me". This
> allow to provide a better default than any "something".