# Explicit switches

As said in the previous chapter, predicates can have more places than just
__A__ and __E__, such as __van__ :

- __van__: `(Ad) goes to [Ed] from (Id).`
- spur : `(Ad) is a nest/house/home for [Ed].`
- peol: `(Ad) is a town/city.`

``gloss
mi van spur mo

mi van spur mo

{\[B is me\]} {\[B goes to __C__ from D\]}
{\[__C__ is a house for F\]} {\[F is you\]}

I go to a house of yours.
``

Simply chaining predicate words one after the other will not allow to switch
to the __I__ place _individual variable_. For that we need to use our first
particle families: __VA__, __VAI__ and __FA__.

The __VA__ particle family contains all particles starting with __v__, except
__vai__ which is the only member of family __VAI__. All particles of the __FA__
family starts with __f__.

__VA__ can be used after a predicate word to choose which place to switch to,
and also start what is called a __VA-scope__, which we'll write using
angle brackets `〈 〉` in the glosses of this chapter.

__va__ switches to the __A__ place, __ve__ to the __E__ place, __vi__ to the
__I__ place and finally __vo__ to the __O__ place.

``gloss
mi van vi spur mo

mi van __vi__ spur mo

{\[B is me\]} {\[B goes to C from __D__\]}
{〈 switch to __D__} {\[__D__ is a house for F\]} {\[F is you\] 〉}

I go from a house of yours.
``

However, __VA__ alone is not enough to switch later to another place of _van_,
as using another __VA__ would switch to a place of the predicate immediatly
before it instead. __FA__, on the other hand, will switch to a place of the
_same predicate as the __VA__ starting the current __VA-scope___. Members of
__FA__ are the same as the members of __VA__ but with the __v__ replaced by
__f__.

``gloss
mi van vi spur mo fe peol

mi van __vi__ spur mo __fe__ peol

{\[B is me\]} {\[B goes to __C__ from D\]} 
{〈 switch to D} {\[D is a house for F\]} {\[F is you\]}
{switch to __C__} {\[C is a town\] 〉}

I go from a house of yours to the town.
``

The order of the explicit switches are irrelevant :

``gloss
mi van ve peol fi spur mo 

mi van __ve__ peol __fi__ spur mo

{\[B is me\]} {\[B goes to C from D\]}
{〈 switch to C} {\[C is a town\]}
{switch to D} {\[D is a house for F\]} {\[F is you\] 〉}

I go to the town from a house of yours.
``

Finally, __VAI__ allows to explicitly close the current __VA-scope__, switching
back to the normal place __individual variable__ explained in the previous
chapter.

``gloss
mi van vi spur mo vai peol

mi van __vi__ spur mo __vai__ peol

{\[B is me\]} {\[B goes to __C__ from D\]}
{〈 switch to D} {\[D is a house for F\]} {\[F is you\]} 〉
{\[__C__ is a town\]}

I go from a house of yours to the town.
``

While in simple sentences like this one it is equivalent to using the proper
__FA__, __VAI__ can be necessary when dealing with multiple nested
__VA-scopes__.

> Nested __VA-scopes__ can become a bit overwelming if they are too long or to
> many. We'll see in a subsequent chapter how to avoid them and keep sentences
> simple.