# Predicate places

Let's look at the definitions of some eberban words :

- djin: `(E-Xd) desires/wants/wishes [A-P0].`
- kre: `(E-Xd) helps [A-Xd] to satisfy property (O-P1).`
- kini: `(E-Xd) learns/studies fact [A-P0] about (O-Xd).`
- jvin: `(E-Xd) dances.`
- eberban: `(E-Xd) is the eberban language.`

Here we have places with a __P__ place that represents a __predicate place__.
The subtype is a number being the __amount of arguments__ which is also called
its __arity__.

A predicate which have N arguments is said to be __N-ary__. 0-ary predicates
are usually called __propositions__, 1-ary called __properties__ and 2-ary
__relations__.

``gloss
mi djin mi jvin

mi djin mi jvin

{\[E:$(b) is me\]} {\[E:$(b) wants A:$(C)\]}
{$(C) = \[E:$(d) is me\]} {\[E:$(d) dances.\]}

I want that \[Me dancing\] is true/occurs. I want to dance.
``

When a place is a __property place__, it means that the predicate having this
place will use this property by providing it some individual.

``gloss
mi kre va mo fo kini vo eberban

mi kre va mo fo kini vo eberban

{\[E:$(b) is me\]} {\[E:$(b) helps A:$(c) to O:$(D)\]}
{〈 switch to A:$(c)} {\[E:$(c) is you\]}
{switch to O:$(D)} {O:$(D)(__$(f)__)) = \[E:__$(f)__ learns A:$(g) about O:$(h)\]}
{〈 switch to O:$(h)} {\[E:$(h) is eberban\] 〉 〉}

I help you to \[learn something about eberban\].  
I help __you__ so that \[__you__ learn something about eberban\].
``

> __SE__ could be used before _kini_ to change which place will be used as an
> argument of $(D). However, choosing a place outside of the first predicate
> requires more advanced grammar that will be explained in a later chapter.
