# Discourse predicates

The __MA__ particle family contains all particles starting with __m__. They
have the same usage as roots and contains predicates related to the discourse
itself. 

## Pronouns

The following particles are similar to pronouns in other languages :

- __mi :__ `(Ad) is I/a speaker/author.` Remember that individual variables are
  plural and thus could refer to multiple speaker or authors.
- __mo :__ `(Ad) is you, a listener.`
- __mio :__ `(Ad) is I/a speaker/author or you, a listener.` (inclusive we)
- __mie :__ `(Ad) is I/a speaker/author or someone that is not a listener.`
  (exclusive we)
- __me :__ `(Ad) is someone, neither a speaker or listener.` Note that using
  __me__ multiple times doesn't imply it is the same person(s). Refering to the
  same person or things will be explained in a later chapter.
- __mei :__ `(Ad) is this here, near a speaker.`
- __meo :__ `(Ad) is that here, near a listener.`
- __meu :__ `(Ad) is that yonder, far from speaker and listener.`

## Specificity

By default, individual variables can be anything in the universe that satisfies
the predicates they are used with. __mai__ and __mao__ can be used to restrict
them to specific individuals the speaker have in mind :
- __mai :__ `(Ad) is indefinite specific.` The listener is not expected to know
  which one.
- __mao :__ `(Ad) is definite specific.` The listener is expected to know which
  one from context.

## Propositions

It is often useful to be able to speak about propositions. The following
particles are 0-ary predicate (they have no places). 

- __mua :__ `States the last/previous proposition.`
- __mue :__ `States the proposition (0-ary scope) in which this one is embeded.`
  This takes into account sentences and any time there is chaining/VA with a
  proposition (0-ary) place.
- __mui :__ `States the current proposition.` Same logic as __mue__.
- __muo :__ `States the next proposition.`

__mua__, __mue__ and __muo__ use the first closest proposition that matches this
description. To refer the second or others, indices (explained in the __Free
modifiers__ chapter) must be used.

## Others

__ma__ have definition `(Ad) exists.`. It may seem useless as it doesn't add
any restriction to the individual variables, however it may be used with VA to
better control the scope of existentiality claims, or take advantage of how
inexistant places are handled by the chaining system. Th

__mau__ have definition `(Ac) is not bound outside of this scope.` It can be
used in definitions to define "default values" and its usage will be explained
in a later chapter.

