# Borrowings

Borrowings allow importing words from other languages which would be difficult
or even impossible to translate using root words, such as proper names,
names of species, and some cultural concepts eberban avoids including
in its roots to be more culturally neutral.

Borrowings start with the letter __u__, followed by the borrowed word written
in the phonology and morphology allowed by eberban while trying to stay
close to the original pronounciation.

If the borrowed word starts with __u__ then the prefix used is __u'__ to avoid
2 consecutive _u_.

A chain of multiple borrowings will count as only one predicate composed of
multiple parts. To prevent 2 borrowings to fusing into one predicate, you can
separate them with the particle __be__ (__be__ can optionally appear after
every borrowing group but is only necessary when separating multiple groups).

Its definition is `(E-Xc) is a [borrowed word].`. Having a generic place
structure makes comprehension easier for a listener or reader who might not
be familiar with the borrowed word.

The borrowing can be prefixed by the particle __za__ to transform it into a
proper name, with the definition `(E-Xc) is named [borrowed word]`. A more
complete explanation of __za__ will be provided in a later chapter.

## Example

- tsen: `(E-Xc) invents/creates/authors [A-Xd].`

``gloss
za umia uentropi tsen eberban

{za umia uentropi} tsen eberban

{\[E:$(x) is named "mia entropi"\]} {\[E:$(x) creates A:$(y)\]} {\[E:$(y) is eberban\]}

"mia entropi" creates eberban.
``
