# Text structure

An eberban text is organized as a list of paragraphs, which are themselves
lists of either __sentences__ or __definitions__.

## Paragraphs

The start of a paragraph is marked with the particle family __PU__, containing
all particles starting with __pu__. While __pu__ indicates a new paragraph (a
change of topic), the particles __pua, pue, pui__ and __puo__ indicate
increasingly large changes of topic, similar to subsections, sections, chapters,
etc. The marker of the first paragraph of a text is optional, and if missing
is infered to be __pu__.

## Sentences

The start of a sentence is marked with the particle family __PA__, containing
all particles starting with __pa__ expect __pai__ which is in its own
family, __PAI__. __PA__ contains these members :

- __pa :__ assertive sentence, that can be believed or disbelived, and is either
  true or false.
- __pao :__ declarative sentence, that is true only because it is uttered (used
  for declarations, announcements, etc)
- __pau :__ directive sentence, that is requested, wished or ordered to be true.
- __pahi :__ vocative sentence, defines the listener as the first variable of the
  scope.

> With __pahi__ it is possible to choose a variable which is not the first
> variable of the sentence. This will be explained in a later chapter.

The marker of the first sentence of a paragraph is optional, and if missing
is inferred to be __pa__. Sentences are also optionally terminated by __PAI__,
which is almost always elided.

``gloss
pao sni mo

pao sni mo

{\[declarative\]} {\[E:$(x) welcomes A:$(y)\]} {\[E:$(y) is you\]}

(I declare that) You are welcomed.
``

``gloss
pau keur mo minu

pau keur mo minu

{\[directive\]} {\[E:$(X) begins to occur\]} {$(X) = \[E:$(y) is me\]} {\[E:$(y) sleeps\]}

(I request that) Now is the beginning of you sleeping.
``

``gloss
pahi za umari

pahi {za umari}

{\[vocative: $(x)\]} {\[E:$(x) is named "mari"\]}

I'm talking to you, "mari".
``

## Definitions

Definitions are started by the particle family __PO__, containing all particles
starting with __po__, except __poi__ which is in its own family, __POI__, and
acts an elidable terminator for definitions. Definitions will be explained in
detail in a later chapter.
