# Compounds

Providing a root for every concept would be extremely impractical. Complex
concepts are often built upon multiple more primitive concepts, and compounds
are used for this purpose.

Compounds allow transforming any string of valid eberban words (particles, roots
or even borrowings, but not other compounds) into a single unit, __ignoring
their grammatical rules__ but keeping (to a certain extent) their meaning.

A compound is first prefixed by the letter __e, i, o__, respectively starting a
compound composed of 2, 3, or 4 words. If a compound is made of more than 4
words, it must be prefixed and suffixed by __a__. Spaces can be inserted between
any parts of the compound (prefix, word and suffix).

> Note : it's totally valid to have a __a-compound__ with less than 5 words,
> however using e/i/o is prefered. They're equivalent and have the same meaning,
> and only the canonical (shorter one) will be listed in the dictionary.

If the first word starts with __u__ (a borrowing) then the pause before this
__u__ is optional.

A compound have a __unique, fixed meaning which is defined in the dictionary__,
and while its definition can be arbitrary, it usually provides places taken
from its individual components. Usually the most important word is the rightmost
one, and additional words are added to the left to help narrow down the meaning,
yielding greater precision.

It is common to lexicalize a borrowing by making a compound with it. Cultural
concepts are borrowed with endonyms, sounding similar to the original word.

> __e ber ban :__ `(Ad) is the eberban language.`
> 
> - ber : `(Ad) reflects this language (eberban).`
> - ban : `(Ad) is expressed in language [Ed].`

> __e ufranse ban :__ `(Ad) is the french language.`
> 
> - ufranse : borrowing of "french" ("français" in french).
> - ban : `(Ad) is expressed in language [Ed].`

> __i len po bu :__ `(Ad) is a dictionary.`
>
> - len : `(Ad) is a word.`
> - po : Particle starting a definition.
> - bu : Particle allowing to create lists.
