# Quotes

__ca__ (__CA__ family) allow quoting any grammatical eberban text, and is
terminated by __cai__ (__CAI__). The text can itself contain inner __ca__
quotes as __cai__ will match its opening __ca__. The quote acts as a predicate
with the definition `(Ed) is text [text].`

__ce__ (__CE__) allows quoting a single eberban word (particle, root, borrowing,
compound), ignoring its grammar. It has the definition `(Ed) is word [word].`

__cei__ will instead express the family of the word.

- __ce fe__ : `(Ed) is the word "fe".`
- __cei fe__ : `(Ed) is word family FE.`
- __ce spi__: `(Ed) is the word "spi".`
- __cei spi__: `(Ed) is a root word.`

__co__ (__CO__) allows quoting anything such as foreign text, ungrammatical
eberban text or even arbitrary data. __co__ is followed by a single arbitrary
root or particle, which has the role of a delimiter (it is not necessary for it
to be an existing particle or root, only a valid form), followed by a space. Any
additional space is considered part of the quoted text. The quote ends when this
word appears again prefixed by a pause character in written media, and with a
pause before it in speech, and both are not part of the quoted text. The
delimiter word prefixed by a pause must not appear in the text, either written
with same letters or pronounced the same way, as it could lead to ambiguities
regarding where the quote ends. This block acts as a predicate with the
definition `(Ed) is foreign text/arbitrary data with content: [content].`

As the content may be unreadable for the speaker, they are free to pronounce
only the enclosing delimiter while skipping the content. Foreign quotes are
the canonical way to embed things such as images or URLs into eberban text.
It is recommended however to provide a description in eberban to help
comprehension for all speakers, listeners or readers.

> __eberban ca mi don eberban cai siro euinglici'ban co
> zao I like eberban.'zao__ 
> 
> _(in eberban) "mi don eberban" has translation (in english)
> "I like eberban."._
