# Numbers and distributivity

Number are important to communicate and serve many purpose. Eberban numbers
are expressed as a chain of __TI__ particles (any particle starting with __t__)
which is terminated by a member of particle family __BE__. This terminator can
be elided, in which case it is considerd an implicit __be__. It is not
possible to elide the terminator if another number is following, as both chains
of __TI__ would merge into a single one. If one wants to use another member of
__BE__ that is not __be__, it must be stated explicitly.

This chapter will explain the various __BE__ particles which allow to choose
the purpose of the expressed number, and the various __TI__ particles which
allow to express digits, separators and more advanced concepts.

## Digits

Numbers are mainly composed of digits, which are chained one after the other,
starting from the highest significant one to the lowest, which by default
is in base ten.

| Word | Digit | Word | Digit | Word | Digit  | Word | Digit |
| ---- | ----- | ---- | ----- | ---- | ------ | ---- | ----- |
| te   | 0     | tei  | 4     | tie  | 8      | tiei | C/12  |
| ta   | 1     | tai  | 5     | tia  | 9      | tiai | D/13  |
| to   | 2     | toi  | 6     | tio  | ↊/A/10 | tioi | E/14  |
| tu   | 3     | tui  | 7     | tiu  | ↋/B/11 | tiui | F/15  |

> ta to = 12  
> tia te tei = 904

While is it normally not allowed to use a digit higher than the base, it is
allowed if only one digit is used since there is no ambiguity of its value.

> tiui = 15  
> tiui te = _not allowed in base ten_

> This serie is infinite and can be expanded by continuing the following
> pattern:
> 
> _te, ta, .., tiui,_  
> _teie, teia, teio, teiu, taie, .., tuiu,_  
> _teiei, teiai, .., tuiui,_  
> _tieie, tieia, .., tiuiu,_  
> _tieiei, tieiai, .._

__tea__ can be appended at the start of the number and is a negative sign.

All other __TI__ act as separators between digits, and will be listed with
decreasing priority : the first separations will be contained inside the latter
separations.

## Miscelanous separators

__ti__ is a __decimal separator__, with the integer part on the left, and the
decimal part on the right.

> tu __ti__ ta tei = 3.14

__tihi__ is a separator between a number and a __repeating part__ that repeats
indefinitely.

> ta __tihi__ ta to tu = 1.123123...

__tihe__ is a separator between a number and a __magnitude__. The final value
is the left number multiplied by \\(base^{magnitude}\\).

> ta ti tei tu __tihe__ toi = \\(1.43 \times 10^6\\) = \\(1 430 000\\)  
> ta ti tei tu __tihe__ tea tu = \\(1.43 \times 10^{-3}\\) = \\(0.001 43\\)  
> 
__tiha__ is a separator between a __precise__ part and a number representing an
__confidence interval__. The final number is an approximation of a number lying in the
interval  
`]precise - confidence ; precise + confidence[`.

> ta ti ta __tiha__ te ti ta = \\(1.1 \pm 0.1\\) (experimental sciences notation)

__tiho__ is a separator between a __numerator__ and a __denominator__. Both part
can use all the above separators.

> tu __tiho__ to = \\(\frac{3}{2}\\)

__tihu__ is a separator between a __base__ and a number expressed in
that __base__. The base must a single digit which is the highest digit of that
base. Base 10 is thus `tia (9) tiha ..`, base 6 is `tai (5) tiha ..`, etc. As
said above, if not explicited the default base is ten.

> tiui __tihu__ to tio = \\(2A_{16}\\) = \\(42_{10}\\)

## Vectors

In many cases it is useful to have numbers with separate components, such as
dealing with 2D or 3D coordinates. Predicates such as __zgi__ also use vector
notation to quickly express durations where each component represents seconds,
minutes, etc.

Those separators are placed before the component they represent, and follow
the pattern __tehe, teha, teho, tehu, tehei__, ... like digits.

A number not starting by such particle is considered to implicitely start with
__tehe__. A component which is not provided is considered to be equal to 0.

> (tehe) tu teho ta = \\((3; 0; 1)\\)

If the base separator at the start imediately before a vector separator, the
defined base is used for all components. Otherwise it used only for the first
component.

## Distributivity

It is important to explain the concept of distributivity. Until now
we've used predicates with __individual places__ of subtype __d__, which means
__distributive__.

A place of a predicate $(P) is distributive if, whenever some things satisfy
$(P), each one of them also satisfy $(P). If a group of things are cats, each of
them is also a cat.

In contract, some places are not distributive and are said to be __collective__.
If we say that a group of things is 5 cats, then each of them is __not__ 5 cats.
While this easy to understand with numbers, this behavior also appears in other
predicates. When an individual place have collective behavior its type is
written as `Xc` instead of `Xd`.

## Number predicates

Finally, these chain of __TI__ particles form a single predicate with a
definition depending on which __BE__ is used to end it (__be__ if elided).

__be__ is the __abstract number terminator__, giving to the chain this
definition:  
`(E-Nn) is the (abstract) number [number] times [A-Nn] (default: 1).`  
The __A__ place can be used to multiply this number with another number. Units
are actually numbers (1 meter, 1 second, etc) and multiply using this A place is
the standard way to make compound units (\\(m^2\\), \\(km \cdot h^{-1}\\), etc).

> tu te tihe tu (be) mual sti sura = 30 km/h
> - mual: `(E-Nn) is 1 meter times [A-Nn] (default: 1).`
> - sti: `(E-Nn) is the inverse (1/x) of [A-Nn] (default: 1).`
> - sura: `(E-Nn) is 1 hour times [A-Nn] (default: 1).`

__bei__ is the __cardinal number terminator__, giving to the chain this
definition:  
`(E-Xc) is (a group of) [number] things satisfying [A-P1].`  
The number must be natural (non zero positive integer).

> mi buri tu bei menoe = I eat 3 apples.

__beu__ is the __ordinal number terminator__, giving to the chain this
definition:  
`(E-Xc) is the [number]th member of sequence [A-SX].`  
The number must be natural (non zero positive integer).
This predicate involves a __sequence__ place that will be explained in a
later chapter.