# Discourse predicates

The __MI__ particle family contains all particles starting with __m__. They have
the same usage as roots, and the family contains predicates related to the
discourse itself. 

## Pronouns

The following particles are similar to pronouns in other languages :

- __mi :__ `(E-Xd) is I/a speaker/author.` (exclusive we). Remember that
  individual variables are plural and thus could refer to multiple speaker or
  authors.
- __mo :__ `(E-Xd) is you, a listener.`
- __mio :__ `(E-Xd) is I/a speaker/author or you, a listener.` (inclusive we)
- __mie :__ `(E-Xd) is I/a speaker/author or someone that is not a listener.`
  (exclusive we)
- __me :__ `(E-Xd) is someone, neither a speaker or listener.` Note that using
  __me__ multiple times doesn't imply it is the same person(s). Referring to the
  same person or things will be explained in a later chapter.
- __mei :__ `(E-Xd) is this here, near a speaker.`
- __meo :__ `(E-Xd) is that here, near a listener.`
- __meu :__ `(E-Xd) is that yonder, far from speaker and listener.`

## Specificity

By default, individual variables can be anything in the universe that satisfies
the predicates they are used with. __mai__ and __mao__ can be used to restrict
them to specific individuals the speaker has in mind :
- __mai :__ `(E-Xd) is indefinite specific.` The listener is not expected to
  know which one(s).
- __mao :__ `(E-Xd) is definite specific.` The listener is expected to know
  which one(s) from context.

## Propositions

It is often useful to be able to speak about propositions. The following
particles are 0-ary predicates (they have no places). 

- __mui :__ `States the current proposition.`  
  This particle takes into account both the sentence and any time there is
  chaining/VE with a proposition (0-ary) place.
- __mue :__ `States the proposition (0-ary scope) in which this one is
  embedded.` Same logic as __mui__.
- __mua :__ `States the last/previous proposition.`
- __muo :__ `States the next proposition.`

__mue__, __mua__ and __muo__ use the first closest proposition that matches this
description. To refer the second or others, indices (explained in the __Free
modifiers__ chapter) must be used.

## Others

__ma__ has the definition `(E-Xd) exists.`. It may seem useless, as it doesn't
add any restriction to the individual variables, however it may be used with VE
to better control the scope of existentiality claims or to take advantage of
some more advanced rule of the chaining system.

__mau__ has the definition `(E-Xc) is not bound outside of this scope.` It can
be used in definitions to define "default values", and its usage will be
explained in a later chapter.

