# Compounds

Providing a root for every concept would be extremely impractical. Complex
concepts are often built upon multiple more primitive concepts, and compounds
are used for this purpose.

Compounds allow the transformation of any string of valid eberban words
(particles, roots, borrowings, and even other compounds) into a single unit,
__ignoring their grammatical rules__ but keeping (to a certain extent) their
meaning.

A compound is first prefixed by the letter __e, a, o__, respectively starting a
compound composed of 2, 3, or more words. O-compounds stop when a new __o__ is
encountered (with a space or word boundary marker before it). Spaces can be
inserted between any of the parts of the compound.

If the first word starts with a vowel (a borrowing) then the pause before this
vowel is optional.

Compounds have __unique and fixed meanings which are defined in the dictionary__,
and while the definition of each one can be arbitrary, they usually provide
places taken from their individual components. Usually, the most important word
is the rightmost one, and additional words are added to the left to help narrow
down the meaning, yielding greater precision.

It is common to lexicalize a borrowing by making a compound with it. Cultural
concepts are borrowed with endonyms, sounding similar to the original word.

> __e ber ban :__ `(E-Xd) is the eberban language.`
> 
> - ber : `(E-Xd) reflects this language (eberban).`
> - ban : `(E-Xd) is expressed in language [A-Xd].`

> __e uinglici ban :__ `(E-Xd) is the english language.`
> 
> - uinglici : borrowing of "english".
> - ban : `(E-Xd) is expressed in language [A-Xd].`

> __a cen po bu :__ `(E-Xd) is a dictionary.`
>
> - cen : `(E-Xd) is a word.`
> - po : Particle starting a definition.
> - bu : Particle allowing to create lists.
